Arachnida

Summary: Introductory project to web scraping and metadata.
Version: 1.00

Chapter I
Introduction
This project will allow you to process data from the web.

• First you will create a small program to automatically extract information from the
web.
• Then you will create a second program to analyze these files and manipulate the
metadata.
Metadata is information which purpose is to describe other data. It’s essentially
data about data. It is frequently used to describe information contained on images
and documents, and can reveal sensitive information about those who have created or
manipulated them.


Chapter III
Mandatory Part
You must create two programs. The two programs can be scripts or binaries.
In the case of compiled languages, you must include all the source code and compile
it during evaluation.
You can use functions or libraries that allow you to create HTTP requests and handle files, but the logic of each program must be developed by yourself.

So, using wget or scrapy will be considered cheating and this project
will be graded 0.

Chapter IV
Exercice 1 - Spider
The spider program allow you to extract all the images from a website, recursively, by providing a url as a parameter.
You have to manage the following program options:
./spider [-rlp] URL
• Option -r : recursively downloads the images in a URL received as a parameter.
• Option -r -l [N] : indicates the maximum depth level of the recursive download.
If not indicated, it will be 5.
• Option -p [PATH] : indicates the path where the downloaded files will be saved.
If not specified, ./data/ will be used.
The program will download the following extensions by default:
• .jpg/jpeg
• .png
• .gif
• .bmp

Chapter V
Exercice 2 - Scorpion
The second scorpion program receive image files as parameters and must be able to
parse them for EXIF and other metadata, displaying them on the screen.
The program must at least be compatible with the same extensions that spider handles.
It display basic attributes such as the creation date, as well as EXIF data. The output format is up to you.
./scorpion FILE1 [FILE2 ...]
